The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Journal of Prison Discipline and
Philanthropy, March 1912, by Unknown

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Journal of Prison Discipline and Philanthropy, March 1912
       New Series No. 51

Author: Unknown

Release Date: March 5, 2019 [EBook #59014]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JOURNAL OF PRISON DISCIPLINE, MARCH 1912 ***




Produced by Wayne Hammond and The Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This book was
produced from images made available by the HathiTrust
Digital Library.)









  NEW SERIES         No. 51

  THE JOURNAL

  OF

  PRISON DISCIPLINE

  AND

  PHILANTHROPY

  [Illustration]

  PUBLISHED ANNUALLY

  BY THE

  PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY

  INSTITUTED MAY 8, 1787

  [Illustration]

  MARCH, 1912

  [Illustration]

  OFFICE: STATE HOUSE ROW
  S. W. CORNER FIFTH AND CHESTNUT STREETS
  PHILADELPHIA, PA.




OFFICIAL VISITORS.


No person who is not an official visitor of the prison, or who has not
a written permission, according to such rules as the Inspectors may
adopt as aforesaid, shall be allowed to visit the same; the official
visitors are: the Governor, the Speaker and members of the Senate; the
Speaker and members of the House of Representatives; the Secretary of
the Commonwealth; the Judges of the Supreme Court; the Attorney-General
and his Deputies; the President and Associate Judges of all the courts
in the State; the Mayor and Recorders of the cities of Philadelphia,
Lancaster, and Pittsburg; Commissioners and Sheriffs of the several
Counties; and the “Acting Committee of the Philadelphia Society for
Alleviating the Miseries of Public Prisons.” (Note: Now named “The
Pennsylvania Prison Society.”)--_Section 7, Act of April 23, 1829._

The above was supplemented by the following Act, approved March 20,
1903:


AN ACT.

    To make active or visiting committees of societies incorporated for
    the purpose of visiting and instructing prisoners Official Visitors
    of penal and reformatory institutions.

SECTION 1. Be it enacted, etc., That the active or visiting
committee of any society heretofore incorporated and now existing in
the Commonwealth for the purpose of visiting and instructing prisoners,
or persons confined in any penal or reformatory institution, and
alleviating their miseries, shall be and are hereby made official
visitors of any jail, penitentiary, or other penal or reformatory
institution in this Commonwealth, maintained at the public expense,
with the same powers, privileges, and functions as are vested in the
official visitors of prisons and penitentiaries, as now prescribed by
law: Provided, That no active or visiting committee of any such society
shall be entitled to visit such jails or penal institutions, under this
act, unless notice of the names of the members of such committee, and
the terms of their appointment, is given by such society, in writing,
under its corporate seal, to the warden, superintendent or other
officer in charge of such jail, or other officer in charge of any such
jail or other penal institution.

Approved--The 20th day of March, A. D. 1903.

  SAML. W. PENNYPACKER.

The foregoing is a true and correct copy of the Act of the General
Assembly No. 48.

  FRANK M. FULLER,
  _Secretary of the Commonwealth_.

[Illustration: OFFICE OF THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY, STATE
HOUSE ROW, FIFTH AND CHESTNUT STREETS]




  NEW SERIES       No. 51

  THE JOURNAL

  OF

  PRISON DISCIPLINE

  AND

  PHILANTHROPY

  PUBLISHED ANNUALLY

  UNDER THE DIRECTION OF “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY”
  INSTITUTED MAY 8th, 1787

  MARCH, 1912

  OFFICE: STATE HOUSE ROW
  S. W. CORNER FIFTH AND CHESTNUT STREETS
  PHILADELPHIA, PA.




SPECIAL NOTICES.


All correspondence with reference to the work of the Society, or to
the JOURNAL OF PRISON DISCIPLINE AND PHILANTHROPY, should be
addressed to THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY, 500 Chestnut
St., Philadelphia, Pa.

The National Prison Association of the United States for the past
ten years has designated the fourth Sunday in October, annually, as
Prison Sunday. To aid the movement for reformation, some speakers may
be supplied from this Society. Apply to chairman of the Committee on
Prison Sunday.

FREDERICK J. POOLEY is the General Agent of the Society. His
address is 500 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.

Contributions for the work of the Society may be sent to JOHN
WAY, Treasurer, 409 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.

       *       *       *       *       *


FORM OF BEQUEST OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.

I give and bequeath to “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY” the
sum of .... Dollars.

       *       *       *       *       *


FORM OF DEVISE OF REAL ESTATE.

I give and devise to “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY” all
that certain piece or parcel of land. (Here describe the property).




OFFICERS OF THE SOCIETY FOR 1912


PRESIDENT

  JOSHUA L. BAILY, Philadelphia, Pa.


VICE-PRESIDENTS

  REV. HERMAN L. DUHRING, 225 S. Third Street, Philadelphia.
  REV. F. H. SENFT, 560 N. Twentieth Street, Philadelphia.


SECRETARY

  ALBERT H. VOTAW, 500 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.


ASSISTANT SECRETARY

  DR. WILLIAM C. STOKES, 500 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.


TREASURER

  JOHN WAY, 409 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.


HONORARY COUNSELOR

  HON. WM. N. ASHMAN, 44th & Spruce Streets, Philadelphia.


COUNSELORS

  HON. HENRY S. CATTELL, 1218 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia.
  HON. OWEN J. ROBERTS, West End Trust Building, Philadelphia.


GENERAL AGENT

  FREDERICK J. POOLEY, 500 Chestnut St., Philadelphia.


ACTING COMMITTEE.

                            FOR ONE YEAR

  P.H. Spellissy,        Rev. R. Heber Barnes,   Miss C. V. Hodges,
  Fred. J. Pooley,       Dr. Wm. C. Stokes,      Rebecca P. Latimer,
  William Scattergood,   Deborah C. Leeds,       Dr. John Frazer,
  Mrs. P. W. Lawrence,   Mrs. Horace Fassitt,    Daniel Buckley,
  William Koelle,        Joseph C. Noblit,       Joseph Hill Brinton.

                            FOR TWO YEARS

  Charles P. Hastings,   Charles McDole,         Miss Annie McFedries,
  Isaac P. Miller,       Harrison Walton,        Rev. Thomas Latimer,
  Elias H. White,        Mrs. Mary S. Grigg,     Norris J. Scott,
  John Smallzell,        William Morris,         Mrs. Lillie C. Mann,
  John A. Duncan,        Emma L. Thompson,       John D. Hampton.

                            FOR THREE YEARS

  Rev. J. F. Ohl,        George S. Wetherell,    A. Jackson Wright,
  Harry Kennedy,         Henry C. Cassel,        Frank H. Longshore,
  Mrs. Layyah Barakat,   Albert Oetinger,        Charles LeFevre,
  William E. Tatum,      Rev. Philip Lamerdin,   Rev. M. R. Minnich,
  Mary S. Wetherell,     Mrs. E. W. Gormly,      W. Graham Tyler.


FROM THE STATE-AT-LARGE.

FOR THE YEAR 1912

  Rev. John Mueller, Pittsburg.
  Capt. Nicholas Baggs, Abington.
  Mrs. Sarah B. Mumma, Lancaster.




COMMITTEES FOR 1912


COMMITTEE TO VISIT THE EASTERN PENITENTIARY

  P. H. Spellissy,        Frank H. Longshore,   William Morris,
  Dr. Wm. C. Stokes,      A. Jackson Wright,    Rev. M. Reed Minnich,
  Rev. F. H. Senft,       Chas. H. LeFevre,     Dr. John Frazer,
  William Koelle,         Chas. P. Hastings,    John D. Hampton,
  Jos. C. Noblit,         John Smallzell,       W. Graham Tyler,
  Rev. Philip Lamerdin,   Chas. McDole,         Deborah C. Leeds,
  Harry Kennedy,          Harrison Walton,      Mrs. Horace Fassitt,
  Rev. J. F. Ohl,         Albert H. Votaw,      Miss Rebecca P. Latimer,
  Wm. E. Tatum,           Rev. Thos. Latimer,   Mrs. Layyah Barakat,
  Geo. S. Wetherell,      John A. Duncan,       Mrs. Mary S. Grigg,
  Henry C. Cassel,        Isaac P. Miller,      Emma L. Thompson.


COMMITTEE TO VISIT THE PHILADELPHIA COUNTY PRISON

  Jos. C. Noblit,       Albert H. Votaw,       Mrs. Horace Fassitt,
  John A. Duncan,       Deborah C. Leeds,      Miss C. V. Hodges,
  Isaac P. Miller,      Mrs. P. W. Lawrence,   Miss Rebecca P. Latimer.


FOR THE HOLMESBURG PRISON

  Fred. J. Pooley,      Wm. Koelle,          Rev. Philip Lamerdin.


HOUSE OF CORRECTION

  William Koelle,       Deborah C. Leeds,    Lillie C. Mann.


CHESTER AND DELAWARE COUNTY PRISONS

  William Scattergood,    John Way,            Deborah C. Leeds,
  Norris J. Scott.


BUCKS COUNTY PRISON

  Albert Oetinger.


MONTGOMERY COUNTY PRISON

  Nicholas Baggs.


LANCASTER COUNTY PRISON

  Mrs. Sarah B. Mumma.


WESTERN PENITENTIARY AND ALLEGHENY COUNTY PRISON

  Rev. John Mueller,    Mrs. E. W. Gormly,    Miss Annie McFedries.


COMMITTEE ON DISCHARGED PRISONERS

  Joseph C. Noblit,   George S. Wetherell,   Dr. Wm. C. Stokes,
  Daniel Buckley,     Mrs. Horace Fassitt.


COMMITTEE ON LEGISLATION

  Rev. J. F. Ohl,     Elias H. White,       Norris J. Scott.
  Joseph C. Noblit,   Jos. Hill Brinton,


COMMITTEE ON MEMBERSHIP

  Dr. Wm. C. Stokes,   Elias H. White,      Henry C. Cassel.
  Geo. S. Wetherell,   Isaac P. Miller,


COMMITTEE ON POLICE MATRONS

  Mrs. Mary S. Grigg,   Mrs. Lillie C. Mann,   (One vacancy)


COMMITTEE ON PRISON SUNDAY

  Rev. R. Heber Barnes,   Rev. J. F. Ohl,    Rev. Philip Lamerdin.
  Rev. H. L. Duhring,     Rev. F. H. Senft,


EDITORIAL COMMITTEE

  Dr. John Frazer,   Rev. R. Heber Barnes,    Albert H. Votaw,
  Rev. J. F. Ohl,    Dr. William C. Stokes,   The President (ex-officio)


FINANCE COMMITTEE

  George S. Wetherell,   Isaac P. Miller,    Daniel Buckley.
  A. Jackson Wright,     Joseph C. Noblit,


AUDITORS

  Charles P. Hastings,   John A. Duncan,   John Smallzell.




ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY-FIFTH ANNUAL MEETING OF THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON
SOCIETY.

  1787        1912


The 125th Annual Meeting of “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY”
was held January 11th, 1912, at the office of the Society, S. W. Corner
Fifth and Chestnut Streets, Philadelphia, the President, JOSHUA L.
BAILY, in the Chair.

Twenty-eight members of the Society were present.

The Minutes of the 124th Annual Meeting were read and approved.

The Report of the Acting Committee was read by the Secretary.
The report was approved and was directed to be printed in the
“JOURNAL.” (See page 6)

The Treasurer, JOHN WAY, produced a detailed statement of the
receipts and disbursements for the fiscal year ending December 31,
1911. (See page 15)

GEORGE S. WETHERELL, on behalf of the Committee on
Nominations, presented a list of nominations for the officers of the
Society for the term of one year, beginning February 1, 1912, and for
the members of the Acting Committee whose terms expire at this time.
The President appointed JOS. C. NOBLIT and WILLIAM E.
TATUM as Tellers. The election being duly conducted, the Tellers
announced that a unanimous vote was cast for the ballot as proposed by
the Nominating Committee. (See page 3.)

On Motion HON. WILLIAM N. ASHMAN was elected Honorary
Counselor.

To nominate officers at the next Annual Meeting, the President
appointed JOSEPH C. NOBLIT, A. JACKSON WRIGHT,
ISAAC P. MILLER, MRS. MARY S. GRIGG and MRS. EMMA
L. THOMPSON.

The following Amendment to Article VII of the Constitution, proposed
at the last Annual Meeting, was read, and after some discussion,
unanimously adopted.

“The number of Members of the Acting Committee may be increased to not
exceeding sixty, provided the additional Members shall be residents of
Pennsylvania outside of Philadelphia.

“These Members may be elected from time to time at any meeting of
the Acting Committee, according to the provisions of the By-Laws for
filling vacancies, but the terms for which they are elected shall
be for the unexpired portion of the current fiscal year only. These
additional Members will be eligible for re-election at the next Annual
Meeting, and their respective terms of service shall then be assigned
so as to be co-ordinate with the terms of service of the other Members
of the Committee.”

The President spoke in acknowledgment of the honor of his re-election
to the Presidency of this Society, the oldest organization of the kind
in the world. He congratulated the Society on the increased interest as
manifested by the attendance at this meeting and by the larger amount
of contributions received in 1911 for the work of the Society.

  ALBERT H. VOTAW, _Secretary_.




REPORT OF THE ACTING COMMITTEE FOR THE YEAR 1911.


In the year 1912, the PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY will have
completed a century and a quarter of its existence. It seems opportune
briefly to note some of the important features of the work of this
organization during the last 125 years. We are fortunate in the
possession of an unbroken series of records of the transactions of this
body from its first meeting in May, 1787, to the present time.

In 1787 the conditions of the jails in Philadelphia were unspeakably
disgraceful. In one common herd there were kept by day and by night
prisoners of all ages, colors, degrees of crime, and the sexes were
not separated. No bedding was supplied and unless the prisoner had
means or friends, he slept on the ground or bare floor. One loaf of
bread constituted the daily ration. Misconduct was punished by the
branding-iron, the pillory, or by the lash. Intoxicants were sold to
all applicants who had money. The keeper reaped a profit from all sales
made to the inmates of the prison. The death rate was enormous. No
effort was made to find any useful employment for the prisoners.

The Society early resolved that intoxicants must be forbidden and that
some form of employment must be found. They insisted on segregation
of the sexes, and also began to press for individual separation in
order that the penal institutions should not become schools for crime.
Within a very few years many reforms were instituted. The death penalty
which had been inflicted for a score of crimes was abrogated except
for murder in the first degree. “Solitary confinement to hard labor”
is still a familiar phrase used by Judges in pronouncing sentence. In
its early years, the Society consistently and persistently urged the
adoption of a system of employment whereby each prisoner alone in his
cell should perform his task in some industrial pursuit. It was never
intended that the prisoners should be kept entirely secluded from all
human companionship, but that the officers should see them frequently
and that concerned visitors, under proper supervision, should be
allowed to talk with them and endeavor to point them to the better
way. This idea became known among penologists as “The Pennsylvania
System,” and was discussed widely, both at home and abroad. The Eastern
Penitentiary, on Fairmount Avenue, formerly Coates Street, was built
upon plans largely suggested by this Society. Doubtless the separate
system was entirely carried out in 1829, when the prison was opened for
the reception of prisoners. But in the last half century, the number
of prisoners has exceeded the number of cells, so that the officers of
the prison have not been able to carry out this system as originally
planned. When this penitentiary was first constructed, it was located
on what was then known as Cherry Hill, an eminence in the Northwest
suburban district, and was surrounded by farming land. That penal
institutions should be located in the country is, therefore, not a new
proposition. Now it is generally conceded that such institutions not
only should be located in the country, but that they should own and
work a large tract of land adjacent.

    The first prisoner was received Oct. 25, 1829. The first report
    of the Committee to visit the Eastern Penitentiary was made to
    the Acting Committee on Nov. 11, 1829, and shows that there were
    two prisoners at that time in the institution, one a white man
    from Chester Co., the other a colored man from Delaware Co. By
    June 8, 1830, the number of prisoners had increased to 25. The
    following extracts from the report of the Visiting Committee, made
    in June, 1830, will prove interesting to those who are familiar
    with the present conditions at the Penitentiary. “* * * The best
    order prevails among the prisoners who are industriously, and
    it is believed, profitably employed. Each is supplied with a
    soup-pan, washbasin, brush, fine and coarse tooth comb, spoon,
    knife and fork, and every week with a clean towel. Each prisoner is
    required to keep his room clean and neat. * * * The food consists
    of half a pint of milk, mixed in the same amount of hot water,
    bread made of rye and Indian meal (one pound) for breakfast; for
    dinner one pint soup, three-fourths pound meat, one-third pound
    bread; for supper one pint Indian mush and a half gill molasses.
    * * * No conversation can take place between the prisoners, and
    no communication from without be permitted. It has not been found
    necessary to inflict any punishment so far, except in two cases:
    in one case where a prisoner had neglected to keep his mess-pan
    clean, he lost two meals; in another case, a prisoner who neglected
    his work was for three days deprived of his meat. The principal
    trades are weaving and shoemaking, trades which may be carried on
    in cells to advantage. The health of the prisoners continues good.”
    The report is signed June 8, 1830, by the entire Visiting Committee
    consisting of David Weatherly and James J. Barclay. Now after 80
    years the supply of furniture is practically the same, a table or
    stand being added. Sanitary arrangements have been vastly improved,
    and the addition of a superior grade of homemade wheat bread and
    coffee to the bill of fare has made a more palatable menu.

Some forty years ago it was written that every advance in the
amelioration of convict prisons systems of discipline began in
Philadelphia. In the discussion of these problems THE PENNSYLVANIA
PRISON SOCIETY took a conspicuous part. In 1856 the first
published criticism of the contract system, under which the labor of
the prisoners was sold for profit and to meet the prison expenses,
issued from Philadelphia. The criticism was received with scorn
and ridicule. Thoughtful students of humanitarian measures began
investigations in one State after another, with the result that at the
present time scarcely one State in the Union maintains such a system.
But while Pennsylvania has led the way in many measures to reform the
criminal and improve his condition, some States have made more rapid
progress in these directions. Many States offer greater opportunities
in their prisons for industrial employment than we can show in
Pennsylvania. Most of the States have preceded us in the adoption of a
Parole and a Probation system for adult convicts.


PROBATION, PAROLE, INDETERMINATE SENTENCE.

In 1909, the Legislature of Pennsylvania enacted a law providing for
Probation for some classes of adult offenders, and also for a Parole
of criminals sentenced to the Penitentiaries of the State under the
conditions of an Indeterminate Sentence. Under the Probation Act, the
Courts have power to suspend the imposition of the sentence and to
place the defendant on Probation on such terms and conditions as the
Court may deem proper.

The Parole Law applied to the sentences of criminals sentenced to
the Penitentiary on and after June 30, 1909. Two Members of THE
PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY were very active in framing this law
and in securing its passage. The Legislature of 1911 amended this law
so as to render almost nugatory some of the provisions of the law with
regard to the Indeterminate Sentence. The Chairman of our Committee on
Legislation has ably discussed this subject in an article published in
the JOURNAL which was issued in November, 1911. The following
statistics, furnished by Parole Officer, JOHN MCKENTY, of the
Eastern Penitentiary, show the operation of the law to the end of the
year 1911.

  Number paroled since the law was effective                 128
  Number returned for failure to fulfill requirement          15
  Number not reporting                                         3
  Number of those paroled who have received final discharge   10
  Number on Parole December 31, 1911                         100
  Percentage of success                                     85.9%

These figures compare quite favorably with the results reported from
other States in which this system has been for a longer period in vogue.


THE EASTERN PENITENTIARY.

Reports of the Members of the Acting Committee, appointed to visit the
Eastern Penitentiary, show that during the year 1911 6405 visits to
prisoners have been made. Many unreported visits have gladdened the
prisoner in his lonely cell. Several of our members participate in the
Gospel services on the Sabbath.

One of the prisoners remarked to the Secretary that in his opinion the
work of visitation was the most important function of the Society.
This has been the most effective part of our work from the first. Some
of the men’s blocks are not visited so often as would be desirable.
The women’s block is said to be over-visited. Several organizations
have the privilege of sending visitors to the twenty-seven women now
incarcerated, and while visitors are welcomed at suitable times and
under proper conditions, yet it is readily recognized that these
prisoners of the women’s block should have sufficient time to attend to
their regular, but not onerous, duties as assistants in various lines
of domestic employment.

Under the management of Warden ROBERT J. MCKENTY, the
administration is to be commended. The discipline is firm, but kindly,
and so long as the privileges granted are not abused, there is allowed
a large amount of freedom within reasonable limits. Hence, in this
institution, the visitor may note an unusually contented and orderly
body of convicts.


RELIEF FOR PRISONERS WHEN DISCHARGED.

The expense of supplying needy prisoners with clothing at the time of
their discharge from the Eastern Penitentiary has been almost entirely
borne by this Society since 1896. For the six years prior to 1896,
the Legislature appropriated on the average of $2490.00 annually to
the Society, which thereupon assumed the expense of providing outfits
for the prisoners at the time of their release. In 1895, the Governor
refused to sanction the appropriation. No legislative grant of funds
has been made since that time to the Society. Our late Honorary
Secretary, JOHN J. LYTLE, who at that time was the General
Secretary of the Society, with untiring energy solicited contributions
from benevolent citizens to supply the prisoners when released with
presentable clothing. His whole heart was in this work and nobly did he
discharge what he deemed to be his duty to administer the charity in
which our Society had been, up to that time, assisted by the State. We
are still providing an outfit for discharged prisoners, although this
aid is supplied by legislative appropriation practically in every other
State of the Union. I append to this report a schedule showing what
provision is made for prisoners at the time of their discharge from the
various State Prisons. (See page 38.)

During the year, 1911, the Secretary has furnished 370 men at the time
of their discharge from the Eastern Penitentiary either with entire
outfits, or with sufficient attire to make them presentable.

The following list shows what garments have been given:

  Coats                            293
  Vests                            294
  Pants                            294
  Dress Shirts                     243
  Underclothing (pieces)           474
  Hats                             332
  Suspenders, pairs                326
  Neck-ties                        314
  Collars                           41
    Total number of garments      2611

A few of the women on their discharge have been furnished with suitable
articles of apparel.

The administration of this charity is attended with peculiar
advantages. It is an important duty to visit the prisoners near the
close of their time of incarceration, and to learn from them with
regard to their hopes and fears. Then, if ever, they need sympathetic
attention. Many of them have friends or homes ready to receive them,
but there are others who need more than a suit of clothes and a parting
word of good wishes. We endeavor to find employment for such as these
unfortunate ones, and, while in many cases we have succeeded, there
is a remnant who are not strong enough to face the temptations of the
outer world. Shall we not send such as these to a farm under control of
the State, where they will have opportunity to work in the open air,
and be retained in some kind of semi-detention until they have made
good?


WESTERN PENITENTIARY.

Two members of the Acting Committee, who reside in Pittsburg, have
reported various visits and some Gospel service in the Western
Penitentiary.

In response to an inquiry with regard to the provision made for the
prisoners of that institution at the time of their discharge, Warden
JOHN FRANCIES writes as follows:

  A. H. VOTAW, Secretary,
  The Pennsylvania Prison Society,
  Philadelphia, Pa.

  DEAR SIR:--

Replying to your inquiry of Dec. 20, 1911, permit me to reply as
follows:--

1. With regard to money to prisoners on discharge.

This depends upon the distance the prisoner is going. If within a
radius of fifty miles, $5.00 is given. If outside the radius of fifty
miles, $10.00 is given.

2. With regard to clothing to prisoners on discharge.

The prisoner is given $10.00 worth of clothing as provided for in
appropriation by last session of Legislature.

3. Clothing supplied.

Suit complete, and furnishings, viz.: hat, shirt, shoes, hose, tie,
collar, etc.

  Yours very truly,
  JOHN FRANCIES, _Warden_.

At the last session of the Legislature of Pennsylvania, authority was
granted to remove this prison from Allegheny City to some large tract
of land amid healthier surroundings, and we have learned that a site
has been selected about eight miles from Bellefonte in Centre county.
Full opportunity will be afforded here to test the out-door treatment.

Chaplain MILLER, of the Western Penitentiary, has kindly
furnished the following statistics with regard to those paroled from
that institution:

  Whole number paroled                                         100
  Number returned                                               15
  Number not reporting                                           0
  Number of those paroled who have received final discharge      1
  Number deceased                                                2
  Number now on parole                                          82
  Percentage of success                                         85%


PHILADELPHIA COUNTY PRISONS.

The Committee appointed to visit the Philadelphia County Prisons have
been diligent in this service and the reports show that 6100 visits
have been made to the prisoners at Moyamensing and Holmesburg.

The General Agent, FRED. J. POOLEY, has assisted several
hundred at the time of their discharge with lodging, clothing, railroad
fares, and with articles to sell, while they are awaiting more
permanent employment. He has given help to a considerable number in
securing situations. The Door of Blessing has indeed proved to be true
to its name in giving help to the women at the time of their discharge.


GENERAL AGENT.

Our General Agent, FRED. J. POOLEY, has found a large field
for service at the Central Police Station at City Hall. He makes a
special object to have interviews with those who have had a preliminary
hearing before Magistrates, and who have been committed for trial
before the Judges at City Hall. More than a thousand letters has he
written in behalf of those who have been arrested in the last year.
Very often he secures the release of young prisoners by promptly
communicating with parents or relatives, who assume responsibility
for the offender. Thus many first offenders are turned from the error
of their ways by this timely attention, and escape the schooling in
crime which they would inevitably receive by further association with
hardened criminals. The work requires to be done with the utmost tact
and discretion, and several of the Magistrates have borne testimony
to the efficient service of our General Agent. He has presented a
more detailed report, an abstract of which will be printed in the
“JOURNAL.”


COUNTY PRISONS (OUTSIDE OF PHILADELPHIA.)

Members of our Acting Committee have reported visits to the prisons
in Allegheny, Bucks, Chester, Delaware, Montgomery, Monroe, Lancaster
and Westmoreland and other counties. With the passage of the proposed
amendment to our Constitution, providing for additions to the Acting
Committee, it will be possible to secure workers in other counties of
the State, who, we trust, will be of material assistance in collecting
information, and also in co-operating with us to secure measures to
ameliorate some of the evils of the present system. There are very
few county jails in the State whose construction and management may
be regarded as creditable. Some of the officials are doubtless doing
the best they can with the means at hand. But the great majority of
jails throughout the State have made little progress in the last half
century. “No prison without employment” should be our campaign cry.
It ought not to be impracticable for a number of the smaller counties
to unite in the management of a prison farm to which petty offenders
should be sent. Such a farm should be self-supporting.

It should not be forgotten that the State of Pennsylvania has at least
two institutions which for some years have illustrated the value and
efficacy of farm life for prisoners. One is the Huntingdon Reformatory,
the other is the Allegheny Work House at Hoboken.


AMERICAN PRISON CONGRESS.

Since our JOURNAL for 1911 was issued so late in that year,
it gave opportunity to include in its contents an account of the
Proceedings of the American Prison Association, which met in Omaha,
Nebraska, in October, 1911. This report was prepared by the secretary
of the Society, who was appointed Delegate to the Association.
DEBORAH C. LEEDS was also present at the sessions of this
body. In 1912, the Association will be held in Baltimore, Maryland, and
we hope a considerable number of the members of our Society will attend
its sessions.


ASSISTANT SECRETARY.

By motion of the Acting Committee passed in June, 1911, DR. WILLIAM
C. STOKES was appointed Assistant to the Secretary. His duties
have been to assist in the clerical work of the office, and especially
to endeavor to increase the amount of funds collected for the use of
the Society. Since his appointment, the office has been kept open
during the greater part of the business hours of each day, and we have
felt there was an important service in having the office accessible
at all time to members and visitors. Since June 21st, a Register for
Visitors has been kept, and the record shows that 417 visitors had
registered to December 31st from 35 States. A few foreign visitors were
received. Many of these visitors appear to appreciate information about
the work in which we are engaged, and they generally accept some of our
publications. We believe this opportunity to present some features of
our work will prove of some value.


OBITUARIES.

During the year 1911, the Acting Committee lost by death three of its
members.

On Eighth Month 18, our beloved Honorary Secretary, John J. Lytle,
passed away from his residence at Moorestown, N. J.

On Second Month, 15, Miss Mary S. Whelen, formerly a very active and
efficient member of the Active Committee, died at her home in this city.

On Seventh Month 1, Robert P. Nicholson, a new, but deeply interested,
member died, as the result of an accident.

Appropriate notices of these valued members appeared in our
JOURNAL of October, 1911.


THE SCOPE OF OUR WORK.

In 1787, the labors of the Founders of our organization were confined
to the prisons of Philadelphia. It was but a few years when they found
it necessary, in order to accomplish certain reformatory measures, to
petition the Legislature for some changes in, or additions to, the
penal code. As time passed their interest extended beyond the limits
of Philadelphia, but it was almost a hundred years after the founding
of the Society that its name was changed from “The Philadelphia
Society for Alleviating the Miseries of Public Prisons” to “THE
PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY.” Our interests are State-wide,
and in furtherance of this, the Membership of the Acting Committee
has recently been increased by the election of other interested
citizens residing in counties outside of Philadelphia, thus enlarging
the sphere of our influence. For many years, the Society has had
the valuable services on its Acting Committee of two members from
Pittsburg and several from counties adjacent
to Philadelphia, but closer relations with the prison work in all parts
of the State are much to be desired.

Our Master said, “I was in prison and ye came unto me.” In the spirit
of the Master, let us endeavor to impress in the name of humanity,
all well-disposed people everywhere to lend a helping hand to their
brothers and sisters who have been overtaken by a fault.

  On behalf of the Acting Committee,
  ALBERT H. VOTAW, _Secretary_.




DEATH OF ROBERT B. ADAMS.


Robert B. Adams, a former member of the Acting Committee of the
Pennsylvania Prison Society, who resigned in the autumn of 1911, on
his removal from the city to accept the Secretaryship of the Y. M. C.
A. at Rochester, N. Y., died Jan. 18, 1912, after a short illness from
pneumonia. He was a genial man of broad sympathies, and his loss will
be felt by a large circle of friends and by a host of unfortunates by
whose ministrations they had received help and inspiration.




REPORT OF TREASURER.

JOHN WAY, _Treasurer_.

IN ACCOUNT WITH

THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY.


GENERAL FUND.

RECEIPTS FOR THE YEAR 1911.

  To Balance on hand, January 1, 1911                         $869 40
  “  Members’ Dues                                             265 00
  “  Contributions                                           5,111 50
  “  Income from Investments                                 1,976 12
  “  I. V. Williamson “Charities”                              630 00
  “  Interest on Deposit Balances                               33 79
  “  Life Memberships (2)                                      100 00
  “  Loan to Discharged Prisoner Repaid                          2 50
  “  Legacy from Estate Anna Eliza Porter                      476 25
                                                            ---------
         Total                                              $9,464 56


PAYMENTS, 1911.

  For Clothing Discharged Prisoners, Eastern Penitentiary       $2,107 12
   “  Appropriation for Prisoners Discharged from Philadelphia
          County Prison                                            990 00
   “  Salaries                                                   2,957 05
   “  Expense of “Journal,” 1911                                   461 11
   “  Traveling Expenses, Secretary and Agent                      115 76
   “  Sundry Printing, Stationery, Postage                         786 19
   “  Office Expenses, Incidentals                                 112 83
   “  Rent, Janitor Service                                        193 00
   “  Subscription National Prisoners’ Aid Association              25 00
   “  Annual Fee American Prison Association                         5 00
   “    “     “  Associated Committee of Women on Police
          Matrons                                                    3 00
   “  Investments: Legacy, $476.25; Memberships, $100.00           576 25
   “  Balance on Hand, December 30, 1911                         1,132 25
                                                                ---------
          Total                                                 $9,464 56


STATEMENT OF BARTON FUND.

  Received from Income from Investments                           $102 90
  Overdraft December 30, 1911                                       80 69
                                                                  -------
          Total                                                   $183 59


PAYMENTS.

  Paid for Tools for Discharged Prisoners                          $70 14
  Overdraft January 1, 1911                                        113 45
                                                                  -------
          Total                                                   $183 59


HOME OF INDUSTRY FUND.

  Received from Income from Investments (net)                      $24 50
      “      “  H. S. Benson Legacy (net)                          196 00
      “      “  Caroline S. Williams Est. (net)                    123 42
                                                                  -------
          Total                                                   $343 92
  Paid to Treasurer, Home of Industry                             $343 92

  Respectfully submitted,
  JOHN WAY, _Treasurer_.

We, the undersigned, members of the Auditing Committee, have examined
the foregoing account of John Way, Treasurer, compared the payments
with the vouchers, and believe the same to be correct.

We have also examined the Securities in the hands of the Agent, The
Provident Life and Trust Company of Philadelphia, and find them to
agree with an accompanying schedule.

  CHARLES P. HASTINGS,
  JOHN A. DUNCAN,
  _Auditors_.

Philadelphia, January 10, 1912.




GENERAL AGENT’S REPORT 1911.


  To the Acting Committee of The Pennsylvania Prison Society:

With the close of another year, your General Agent takes pleasure in
making the following report:

Regular visits have been made to the Eastern Penitentiary and all the
prisoners received at the institution during the year were visited, and
with the consent of the officials I have written letters to relatives
of many of the prisoners, some of whom had not written home for years.

Regular visits have been made to Moyamensing Prison and to Philadelphia
County Prison at Holmesburg. Over 6,000 prisoners have been visited
and more than 600 assisted with room rent, board and lodging, railroad
tickets, tools, car-fare and employment, etc.

Your General Agent has made daily visits to the Central Police Courts
and to the cells at City Hall. During the year, 1911, 1,238 letters
were written by him to relatives and friends of those under arrest,
by whose assistance or advice, bail was secured in many cases, and in
other cases a discharge was obtained. During the month of December, 181
letters were written at City Hall, as follows:

  Letters sent to prisoner’s mother           44
     “     “   “      “      father           17
     “     “   “      “      sister           32
     “     “   “      “      brother          24
     “     “   “      “      wife             26
     “     “   “      “      aunt              8
     “     “   “      “      uncle             2
     “     “   “      “      husband           2
     “     “   “      “      friend           26
                                             ---
     “    written during December, 1911      181

I will mention a few of the cases to show the importance of the work of
the Agent at City Hall.

No. 1.--A young man from Martinsburg, W. Va., arrested for being on the
streets without a home; the Magistrate held him for ten days to give me
an opportunity to look into the case. I learned that he had been from
home eighteen months. I wrote to his family and obtained his discharge.
He wrote on his arrival home:--

  “My dear friend Mr. Pooley:--

    “I arrived home safe last evening at 6.30 P. M., and was met by my
    father at the station. My father, mother and sister welcomed me at
    home and even my little dog also. I just arrived in time, thanks to
    you, for my folks were about to move to Mexico City, Mexico.

  “Thanking you for your great kindness to me,
  “Very truly yours,”

No. 2.--A young man from New York left home without consent of his
relatives--found himself stranded in Philadelphia--was arrested and
given ten days in County Prison. I wrote to his mother, who came on to
this city and obtained his discharge.

No. 3.--Case of a woman arrested for spending her evenings in Broad
Street Station. I questioned her closely and found that because of an
unkind word with her sister, she left home and spent her evenings in
the Station, not having anywhere else to go. She told me who she was
and where her sister lived; I visited the sister, who was delighted to
know her sister was found. We obtained her discharge and she went home.

No. 4.--Two young men charged with larceny from a department store. At
the request of the Magistrate, I investigated the case and found the
young men were from New York City; at once a letter was sent to their
people; father came on; the charge was withdrawn; the boys discharged
and their father took them home.

No. 5.--A young man from Louisiana arrested for stealing; said he had
nothing to eat for three days; was committed for court; said he would
not disgrace his family as his father had a nice business in the South,
but he would not tell his address. During his conversation, he told
me his father came to Philadelphia twice a year to buy goods, and
mentioned one of the places where he bought them. I went to the place
he mentioned and found his father was then in the city; I left a note
asking him to meet me. He did so, and was deeply touched to learn where
his son was. He at once went to the prison and took an attorney with
him, and when the case came to court his son was discharged, and he
went home with his father.

No. 6.--A young man from Massachusetts charged with robbing, who told
me he had not written home for six years. I wrote to his father, who
was delighted to know that the lost son had been found. When the case
came to court, the young man was discharged and he went home with his
father.

The cases mentioned are only a few of the many, but they indicate
the character and importance of the work of the General Agent at The
Central Police Station.

While visiting the cells in the Central Station, City Hall, I always
feel a great responsibility resting upon me. I feel that a word spoken
in kindness and love may awaken thoughts of the days of innocence and
inspire them to endeavor to regain what they had lost.

The officials of the City Hall have been very helpful to me in doing
all they can to help along the work. I deeply appreciate their kindly
services.

“Sabbath Reading” has been distributed weekly through the personal
efforts of our late friend, John J. Lytle. The subscriptions to this
useful and appreciated magazine will expire in March, 1912, per annum.
Something over $100 is needed to renew the subscription and I trust
that way may open for the continuance of this benefaction.

Thanks are due to many of our friends for magazines and papers for the
prisoners.

During the past year Emlen Hutchinson, Esq., Chairman of Board of
Inspectors, Philadelphia Prison, has kindly sent me $80.00 for the
purpose of sending home runaway boys, a donation of great usefulness.

  Respectfully submitted,
  FREDERICK J. POOLEY, _General Agent_.
    COMMITMENTS TO MOYAMENSING, PHILADELPHIA COUNTY PRISON.

        White     White    Black    Black      Total
        Males    Females   Males   Females   Committed
  1906  17,085    2,180    3,106    1,005      23,376
  1907  17,090    1,854    2,999      965      22,908
  1908  17,497    1,740    3,267      916      23,420
  1909  13,228    1,247    2,443      767      17,685
  1910  13,518    1,138    2,547      706      17,909
  1911  13,576    1,053    2,815      843      18,287

    The Philadelphia County Prison, Holmesburg, was opened as a penal
    institution on December 28th, 1896, since which time, 12,767 men
    had been received to December 31st, 1911.

  F. J. P.




    ENFORCE IDLENESS OF PRISONERS


    The law of Pennsylvania limits to thirty-five per cent. of the
    whole number of convicts, those who may be employed in any of the
    trades; as a consequence, the greater number of them are consigned
    to enforced idleness. No punishment could be more severe, and if
    punishment is the chief object of our penal system, it is certainly
    secured by Pennsylvania law. It is a system, however, which belongs
    to an age long since past, when the reformation of the criminal had
    little or no consideration.

    It is proper that an evil-doer should suffer punishment and that
    society should be protected from his evil ways, but humanity and
    Christianity alike require that at the same time that he is subject
    to the restraints of the law, the wisest efforts should be made
    for his improvement and reformation, the correction of his evil
    propensities, and the formation of good habits, to the intent that
    when the prison gates are opened to him he may have a fair chance
    to become an upright and useful citizen.

    This end cannot be attained by keeping the convict in idleness,
    the most fruitful source of immorality and mental and physical
    degeneracy. This law of enforced idleness is not only cruel and
    inhuman, as to the convict, it is improvident as to the State, for
    the convict, if employed, could not only earn a large part, if not
    the entire cost of his maintenance, and thus relieve the community
    of this burden, but he would be able to lift another and greater
    burden which must rest somewhere, the support of his family during
    his imprisonment.

    Under the present system the guilty convict is not the chief
    sufferer. The severity of the punishment falls heaviest upon his
    family--the innocent wife and children.


    UNWISE AND VICIOUS.

    Is it not surprising that legislators who are responsible for this
    compulsory idleness do not see its unwisdom and viciousness?

    Instead of permitting the convict to earn his maintenance by his
    own labor, a fellow-laborer outside the prison walls is taxed
    to support him in idleness, an idleness which only intensifies
    whatever criminal propensities he possesses, instead of curing
    them, and increases his capacity for depredations upon society when
    the prison doors are open to him.

    In other words, for every man within prison walls who does not
    earn his maintenance, some man outside has to earn it for him. The
    Divine decree, “In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat thy bread,”
    is reversed in the case of the man who eats his bread in the sweat
    of some other man’s face.

  JOSHUA L. BAILY.




    THE PHILADELPHIA COUNTY PRISON AT HOLMESBURG.


    The Philadelphia County Prison, located at Holmesburg, between the
    Philadelphia and New York Railroad and Torresdale Avenue, about
    6 miles north of the City Hall, and known as the new jail, was
    erected some 15 years ago. It occupies a plot of land containing
    about 21 acres. The wall which encloses the buildings sets back
    from the outer line of the property about 30 feet, so that the
    acreage of the interior is about 18 acres. The stone walls are
    35 feet in height above ground and 12 feet under the surface, so
    that the entire height of the masonry is 47 feet. The wall is 6
    feet wide at the top and about twice that width at the base, and
    entirely enclosing four sides of the tract. The cost of this wall,
    including labor and materials, was $835,000.

    In the center of the building is a rotunda 80 feet in width and
    about 70 feet in height, surmounted by a lantern. From this center
    six one-story corridors, or blocks, radiate like the spokes of a
    wheel. These vary somewhat in length, but average about 330 feet,
    and there is an average of about 70 cells in each. The floor space
    of each cell is 8×18 feet and the ceiling height is 13 feet,
    surmounted by a skylight. Of these corridors, A, B, C, and D are
    occupied by white prisoners, and two of the corridors, E and F, by
    colored. The number of prisoners at this date, February 1st, 1912,
    is 715, about ninety less than at this time last year. About 60 per
    cent. are white and 40 per cent. colored. All the prisoners are
    men. All women convicts are sent to the Moyamensing Prison.

    The total number of cells is 440, and usually each cell is occupied
    by two prisoners. Every cell is provided with a wash basin with
    running water, a closet, two iron bedsteads, a table and one or two
    stools. Each bedstead is provided with a mattress stuffed with 25
    pounds of hand-picked corn husks and a 7-pound pillow of the same
    material. Beside a pair of sheets and pillow cases each prisoner
    has two 4-pound blankets of excellent quality.

    When a prisoner enters he undergoes a careful examination and a
    very complete record is made of all his personal characteristics.
    He then goes to the bathing room. An entirely new suit of clothing
    is given him, and the clothing with which he entered the prison
    is tied up in a sack, to which his name is attached by a tag. The
    sack is then placed in a room provided for that purpose, where it
    remains until his discharge from the jail.

    Wednesday and Thursday are bathing days, and each prisoner is
    required to take a bath at least once a week unless the physician
    certifies that the condition of the prisoner’s health would
    render bathing inexpedient. A change of bedding and underclothing
    is supplied to each prisoner on every Saturday.

    [Illustration: OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION, PHILADELPHIA COUNTY
    PRISON FOR CONVICTS, AT HOLMESBURG]

    About 200 of the prisoners are employed in various trades, in
    carpentering 7, on tin work 2, making mattresses 2, as tailors
    14, shoemakers 20, making brushes 10. These all occupy separate
    apartments. In one additional apartment there are 15 hand looms, on
    which are made the muslin used for sheets, etc. About 18 men are
    employed in connection with this weaving. There are in the same
    apartment 24 stocking weaving machines, employing one man each.
    About 20 find employment in the laundry, and beside these there are
    about 70 men employed in various duties, to wit: 14 men in cooking,
    14 in the bake house, 6 in the boiler room, etc. The men employed
    in these various engagements have their meals in a dining room
    apart from the other prisoners, a room having 6 tables, seating 12
    each.

    The kitchen for this great establishment is a very spacious one and
    very complete and convenient in all its appointments. There are 6
    large steam heated copper boilers intended for making soups. In
    these boilers 250 gallons of soup are made per day during 4 days of
    the week and an equal quantity of what is known as Irish stew on
    the other 3 days. The basis of the soup and stew is fresh beef or
    mutton.

    From 700 to 800 pounds of fresh meat is furnished to the jail every
    day and is hung in a cold storage room, ready for use as wanted.
    There is in addition another storage room in which are stored a
    great quantity of canned tomatoes, barrels of rice, barley, etc.,
    etc.

    The bakery is also very spacious with 4 arched ovens and 4 kneading
    troughs. Eight barrels of flour are converted into bread every day,
    excepting on Sunday, a double quantity being baked on Saturday. The
    number of loaves baked averages about 900 daily, the weight of each
    being 2 pounds, this being a proportion of something more than one
    loaf a day to each prisoner, and it is worth while to add that the
    bread is uniformly baked and of unimpeachable quality.

    Still another large room is used for the production of chocolate
    and what is called coffee. It is necessary to state that no coffee
    is used, but the article which passes by that name is rye, which is
    roasted and ground and boiled in copper boilers; 25 pounds of this
    material is used every morning and suffices to furnish about 3 half
    pints to each prisoner.

    An equal quantity of chocolate is furnished for the supper. A
    dessert of prunes is furnished each prisoner on every Friday.

    The boiler room, some 30×80 feet in dimensions, requires the
    attention of 6 men, and from this room an extensive system of steam
    piping permeates every portion of the buildings and furnishes the
    power for the engine and for the electric lighting. Electric lights
    are throughout all the premises, including each cell.

    An ample supply of filtered water is furnished by the Holmesburg
    and Tacony Water Co., for which the jail pays $2,000 per annum.

    The city had under consideration a proposal to purchase this water
    company, but the price at which it was valued, $146,000, seemed to
    the authorities too high.

    There are in the prison at this date 9 cases of tuberculosis. These
    occupy cells entirely apart from the other prisoners, cells which
    open out on one side to the open air. The patients have liberty
    within and without, as their own pleasure and convenience suggests,
    and when the weather is suitable most of their time is spent in
    walking or lounging in the prison yard. Besides this, there are but
    few cases of sickness in the prison at this time.

    Up to within a recent period, the prisoners all wore striped
    clothing, but on June 1st of last year this mark of distinction
    was abolished and the prisoners were all given new suits free from
    any distinctive mark. The striped clothing is now worn only as a
    punishment for misdemeanor and for which purpose there has been
    so far only little occasion. The exhibition of a suit of striped
    clothing to a prisoner or the mere mention of a possibility of his
    being compelled to wear one, has been found sufficient in most
    cases to subdue and bring the most obdurate prisoners to terms.

    There is a library of about 5,000 volumes. Each prisoner being
    furnished with a catalogue is permitted to select as many as 2 or 3
    books a week, the keepers often kindly assisting in making suitable
    selections. Two or three men are constantly employed in the care of
    the library and in rebinding the books, which become much soiled or
    in need of rebinding.

    There are religious services in each corridor on Sunday afternoon,
    and at the close of that service the choir of colored men,
    numbering about 20, give sacred singing from the center of the
    rotunda, much to the enjoyment of the prisoners, all of whom can
    hear distinctly, even from the farthest extremity of the corridors.

    A very interesting and commendable condition of the Holmesburg
    Jail is that the use of tobacco is prohibited. This prohibition
    includes the use of chewing or smoking tobacco or cigars, and
    extends not to the prisoners only, but to all the keepers. It is
    said that although this is a hard experience to a large majority of
    the prisoners on entering, they soon adapt themselves to it, and
    from the standpoint of health are undoubtedly better off for this
    abstinence.

    The entire cost of the maintenance of this jail after deducting
    about $5000 each year for sales of manufactured articles or of
    waste materials, is a little less than $100,000, which money is
    appropriated by City Councils.

    If the chief aim in the erection of this prison was to secure a
    place of confinement from which there would be but the remotest
    possibility of escape, the end has certainly been attained, but no
    one could go through the buildings and observe their harmonious and
    intelligent adaptation to all requirements without the conviction
    that the health and physical comfort of the prisoners had been
    made the chief consideration. The visitor, however, will have much
    occasion for dissatisfaction on finding that the majority of the
    convicts are _without employment_, but this is no fault of the
    Inspectors, who are charged with the administration of the affairs
    of the prison; the law of the State is at fault in that it limits
    to 35 per cent. of the whole number of convicts those who may be
    employed in any of the trades, and, as a consequence, the greater
    number of men are compelled to remain idle.

    Notwithstanding this very much to be regretted condition, too much
    cannot be said of the good order and effective discipline which
    prevails at the Holmesburg Prison. A striking example of that was
    had at the time of a great storm which occurred in the summer of
    1911, which overturned a tall chimney stack and unroofed a portion
    of the buildings. No effort was made by any prisoner to escape or
    in any way to take advantage of the unfortunate circumstances, but
    the utmost good order and propriety was observed by all of them.

  J. L. B.




    BORSTAL--ENGLAND.

    (Extracts from letter of Daniel Buckley.)


  Paris, February 24th, 1912.

    ... I have visited several prisons in England, amongst others,
    Pentonville, of which Secretary Votaw has already written (in 1909)
    and Borstal, which I shall make the subject of this letter.

    ... Borstal itself is in the country, in the county of Kent, about
    three miles from, and between, the towns of Chatham and Rochester,
    the former being reached by a forty-minute ride in a fast train
    from London. It stands high on the hills overlooking a beautiful
    valley, the shipping of Chatham and the Rochester Cathedral.
    However, Borstal means much more than a local institution, for
    it has given its name to a system of treatment during and after
    confinement which has been so extraordinarily successful that
    a modification of it is being practiced in nearly all British
    prisons for both sexes. Unfortunately, I chose a Saturday for my
    visit and as a sort of half-holiday is practiced there my view of
    the different departments in operation was necessarily hurried,
    and I cannot do better than give you, as much in his own words as
    possible, the description given me by Thomas Holmes a day or two
    before I made my visit.

    In this place, since 1903, the Prison Commissioners have conducted
    experiments with regard to young male prisoners from which they
    have evolved the system to which the old prison has given its name.

    “In reality, it is an attempt by the State, to rescue young persons
    from a life of crime and fit them for an honest industrial life.
    It is unnecessary to point out the value of such work nor to
    say that it is a new departure from the ordinary aims of penal
    administration.

    “Of course there were many difficulties in the way and the Prison
    Commissioners found themselves hampered by lack of funds; the State
    being chary in giving requisite support. But in 1908 the system,
    having proved abundantly successful, became part and parcel of the
    penal system of the country and in 1909 prisons dealing only with
    the young offenders between the ages of 16 and 21 became Borstal
    institutions.

    “Now a word in explanation of the method of selecting the inmates
    and their treatment. In 1908 the prevention of Crimes Act was
    passed, several clauses of which dealt with the reformation of
    young offenders. That they may be perfectly understood, they are
    given in full:

    “Where a person is convicted on indictment for an offense for
    which he is liable to be sent to penal servitude or imprisonment
    and it appears to the Court, first, that the person is not less
    than 16 nor more than 21 years of age, and second, that by reason
    of his criminal tendencies or habits, or association with persons
    of bad character, it is expedient that he should be subject to
    detention for such a term and under such instruction and discipline
    as appears most conducive to his reformation and the repression
    of crime, it should be lawful for the Court, in lieu of passing a
    sentence of penal servitude, or imprisonment, to pass a sentence
    of detention under penal discipline in the Borstal institution for
    a term not less than one year and not more than three years; and
    for the purpose of this act the Secretary of State may establish
    Borstal Institutions, that is to say, places where young offenders
    may be given, while under detention, industrial training and
    instruction.

    “This Act also gives power to the Prison Commissioners to discharge
    on license, such offenders as they think fitted for conditional
    liberty, but no license can be granted until the offender has
    served at least six months of his sentence and every offender
    whether he is released on license or has served his complete
    sentence, remains after his discharge under the supervision of the
    Prison Commissioners for several months.

    “Another part of this Act provides that young offenders sentenced
    to the Borstal treatment must be of good physical and mental health
    and further provides that young men, up to the age of 23 may now be
    admitted to Borstal institutions.”

    Having explained the Genesis of the Borstal institution and given
    you an idea of the class of young men who are admitted to them,
    it will be well to give some details of the daily life therein.
    The Borstalian, on his arrival is bathed and given his uniform and
    the Warden who receives him reads him the rules and gives him any
    necessary information. Next morning he sees the Chaplain and is
    examined by the Doctor and finally brought before the Governor. All
    his antecedents and capabilities are inquired into; his education,
    knowledge, trades, his tastes, etc., are carefully tabulated and
    everything, little though it be, is taken note of for the purposes
    of guiding the Authorities in directing the young man’s future.
    Thus, if he has any knowledge of a trade and wishes to continue
    it he is put straight at it; if he has none, but appears a likely
    youth for a certain job, he is put to that job at once.

    “Should he be an ignorant and hopeless kind of youth for whom
    training and discipline, smartness, etc. is necessary, he is put
    among those who do the housecleaning, etc., where he must work
    neatly, and be quick. Every Borstalian gets physical drill every
    morning for one-half hour and one hour’s gymnasium three times a
    week when no fooling is allowed, for whether it be physical drill
    or gymnastics, work or play, he must do his share, perform all
    the exercises, every one of which has been carefully planned for
    developing his physical and mental smartness.

    “Education is not forgotten, for no sooner does he join the
    institution than he begins to receive five hours tuition each week;
    nor is he released from this until he can pass examinations which
    prove him able to read with comparative ease, write intelligibly
    and do simple figuring. Even then further education awaits him,
    for special classes are formed on various subjects and lectures
    on all topics are given in a large hall where he goes when his
    behaviour and progress have been satisfactory. As magic lanterns
    are frequently used to illustrate these lectures, you can readily
    believe that these prove a great attraction.

    “But the life at Borstal is not all work and no play for the Prison
    Commissioners have recognized that if a youth must work well it is
    essential that he play well, so recreation has not been forgotten.
    After five months a youth of behaviour and industry can obtain
    entrance to a special class and on three evenings in the week may
    meet with others, to play, to read and on Saturday afternoons may
    take part in football or cricket as the season serves.

    “It will be seen that work, education and play all have a part in
    the life at Borstal but religion is not forgotten and I know of no
    religious service more impressive than some of those I have taken
    part in at this institution.

    “Here is the programme of the daily life at the institution. At
    5:30 the prisoner arises and begins the day with a biscuit and
    milk after which he cleans and tidies up his cell. At 7 o’clock he
    breakfasts on bread, porridge, margarine and with tea and coffee,
    if he is in the special grade. At 7:30 he is in the workshop or in
    the open; and carpentering, blacksmithing, bootmaking, building,
    gardening, cooking, cleaning, or laundry work, occupy him until
    noon, when dinner, consisting of bread, meat, potatoes and pudding
    await him. After an hour and ten minutes for dinner and rest he
    resumes work which continues until 5:30 when work ceases and there
    is a general parade reviewed by the Governor after which he gets
    his last food for the day, generally consisting of bread and cheese
    and a mug of cocoa.

    “At 6:15 there is a general meeting in the Chapel when short
    addresses are given by the Chaplain and others and encouraging
    letters from discharged boys who are doing well are read. Then they
    go to the evening classes after which there is recreation for a few
    moments until 8:30 when they go to their cells and shortly after
    lights are out.”

    Surely this is a sensible day’s programme, a sensible system and
    well applied. There are some faults in the plant but as the system
    grew from a very small beginning and the buildings were added from
    time to time this criticism is harsh. However, different planning
    would greatly facilitate the training and decrease the cost of
    maintenance. There are some in the system which are in process of
    being remedied. For instance, it is proposed to lengthen the period
    of licensed freedom to at least one year so that each boy can prove
    himself without need of care during the four seasons.

    The care given these discharged Borstalians, either on license
    or having served their full time, is most admirable. They are in
    charge of the Borstal Association whose agents, aided by those of
    over 60 County Societies for the aid of discharged prisoners, have
    an eye, a very watchful eye, upon them and who report frequently to
    the Association, and a glance at their records, absolutely the most
    complete, concise and convenient imaginable, one can be familiar
    with the whole history of any individual. These records show,
    among multitudinous other things, that aid is frequently required
    to establish a boy as a self-supporting, self-respecting member
    of decent society. It is seldom more than assistance in procuring
    work, or a heart-to-heart “big brother” talk.

    I wish every member of our committee could see these records.
    Besides their primary function of recording they furnish a
    wonderfully interesting human document, and a first-class text-book
    on crime causes, the chances for reformation of different
    characters, etc., etc., all based on the observation of the
    individual, not when under restraint, but when, comparatively
    speaking, a free agent.

    Such records would have an incalculable value to us, if carefully
    kept by the Authorities or Prison Associations of the different
    States. In many places we are applying new systems, or old systems
    to new conditions. New problems are almost bound to arise, as the
    hordes of immigrants, reaching our shores daily, have their effect
    on the national type, and without exact data as to the cause of
    the failure of any system little can be done to better it, and a
    better weapon to induce legislation, not to speak of individual and
    corporate assistance in our work, would be hard to imagine.

    What is called the full Borstal system has not been practiced long
    enough for some to consider it a proven success, but the figures
    here given, those for prisoners released in 1909, give cause for
    bright hopes at least.

    174 are at present conducting themselves satisfactorily, that is,
    82 per cent.

    2 are on hand, that is, as yet without permanent work.

    2 are dead.

    18 are unsatisfactory, irregular at work through their own fault.

    1 is lost sight of, but there is no reason to think for evil.

    15 have been re-convicted, all but one of which have refused two or
    more chances to work at fair wages.

If 82 per cent. of our offenders were reformed our prisons would be
certainly a good investment, but it is only fair to remember that not
all convicted youths between 16 and 23, and no adults of any sort,
are brought under this treatment. Delicate or defective physique of
any sort makes it impossible. How to make a cripple or a boy with a
weak heart into a self-supporting man within the limits of the short
sentence such unfortunates usually receive, is very hard to see. It is
too short a time to learn a trade and even the English authorities are
ridiculously hampered by laws preventing convict labor excepting upon
articles for State use, so that what is learned at prison is of little
value out of it....

  DANIEL BUCKLEY.




SUMMARY OF THE EIGHTY-SECOND ANNUAL REPORT OF THE INSPECTORS OF THE
EASTERN PENITENTIARY, PHILADELPHIA, PA.


This report, contained in a pamphlet of about eighty pages, with nine
plates, is printed and bound within the prison.

  On the first of January, 1911, the population was thus classified:--

  White Males, 1,073; White Females, 18; Total White                  1,091
  Colored Males, 301; Colored Females, 15; Total Colored                316
  Received during the year:
    White Males, 287; White Females, 9; Total White received            296
    Colored Males, 100; Colored Females, 5; Total Colored received      105
  Remaining at the close of the year                                  1,350
  Decrease from close of the preceding year                              57
  The discharges were:
    By Commutation                                                      300
    By Order of Court                                                    18
    By Parole                                                           105
    By Pardon                                                            14
    By Order Managers Huntingdon Reformatory                              6
    By Death                                                             14
    By Expiration of Sentence                                             1

The inspectors report the completion of a new building containing 120
cells, for which the last Legislature appropriated $60,000.00. The
actual cost was $52,698.11, and the balance of the appropriation has
been turned over to the Treasury of the State. “In the erection of the
building, no other than the labor of the prisoners was employed.” They
also state that the results of the application of the Parole Law have
been very satisfactory.

STATISTICS OF THE 401 RECEIVED IN 1911.

  Number claiming this as their first imprisonment      214
  Number known to have been previously imprisoned       187
                                                        ---
                                                        401
  Number from 15 to 30 (incl.) years of age             220
  Number over 30 years of age                           181
                                                        ---
                                                        401
  Number having trades                                   65
  Number having no trades                               336
                                                        ---
                                                        401

HABITS.

  Abstainers                                             82
  Moderate drinkers                                     144
  Occasionally intemperate                              164
  Intemperate                                            11
                                                        ---
                                                        401
  Number attributing their crime to drink               173
  Number who do not attribute their crime to drink      228

CONJUGAL RELATIONS.

  Single, 202; Married, 164; Widowed, 35; Total         401
  Number having children                                120
  Number of children                                    281

NATIVITY.

  Born in United States                                 313
  Born in a foreign country                              88
                                                        ---
                                                        401

CLASSIFICATION OF CRIMES.

  Crimes against persons                                138
  Crimes against property                               230
  Crimes against both persons and property               33
                                                        ---
                                                        401

Considerable space is given to “Criminal Histories” of sixty prisoners,
received in 1911, who had previously served one or more terms at the
Eastern Penitentiary. The criminal records of eighteen prisoners,
received in 1911, who have relatives in prison, are given.

Visits of friends and relatives (not including members of religious
organizations):

  Number of visits made                      3,540
  Number of prisoners thus visited           1,087
  Number of prisoners not thus visited         721

SCHOOL REPORT.

  Number in school at close of year 1910       229
  Number in school at close of year 1911       270

Of the 108 illiterates received in the school, only 3 were illiterate
when discharged.

The branches taught are Reading, Writing, Arithmetic, Geography,
Grammar, History.

  Number of students taking Correspondence courses, Dec. 31, 1911    410

LIBRARY REPORT.

  Number of volumes                                12,834
  Books issued                                     60,226
  Books bound during the year                        1419
  Pages printed at the Penitentiary Printing Press for various uses
  of the Institution                               717,186

The members of various religious organizations have continued their
helpful visitations, and the Sabbath services have been well maintained.

The assistance of the Pennsylvania Prison Society in providing clothing
for prisoners at the time of their discharge receives grateful
recognition.

  Cost of maintenance for the year 1911        $95,154 52
  Cost of maintenance for the year 1910         99,296 70

ACCOUNTS WITH CONVICTS FOR 1911.

                                                   DR.            CR.

  Balance to credit of convicts January 1, 1911               $11,662 13
  Cash sent by relatives and friends                           25,498 38
  Cash brought by convicts on entrance                            789 74
  Cash credited by overwork                                    11,861 94
  Allowance                                                       380 00
  Cash deposited in Savings Banks                 $4,001 00
  Cash paid convicts on discharge                  5,592 93
  Sundry goods, shoes, etc.                        4,328 26
  Cash paid to relatives and friends              19,943 71
  Paid for tobacco, toilet articles, etc.          6,522 82
  Profit and loss                                      1 54
  Balance due convicts January 1, 1912             9,801 93
                                                   --------    ----------
                                                 $50,192 19    $50,192 19




WESTERN PENITENTIARY.


The site for the Western Penitentiary of Pennsylvania has been
officially chosen by Warden John Francies and the Board of Prison
Inspectors. The selection of the site is subject to the approval
of Gov. John K. Tener, and is in Center County, a few miles from
Bellefonte. It contains 4,878 acres of fertile agricultural land, 936
acres being part of a State forestry reservation, the rest, 3,942
acres, being held under option from a number of private landowners. The
cost of the private land will be $191,655.

From the forest reservation ample wood for the construction of
preliminary buildings of the new prison may be drawn. The institution
will be entirely fireproof, and it is Warden Francies’ intention to
have all the manual labor entailed in its construction done by his
wards.

From McBride’s Gap, which forms a cleft in Nittany Mountain, will be
drawn the new prison’s water supply. Warden Francies has obtained the
entire watershed of McBride’s Gap Run, giving the prison absolute
control of the sanitary condition of the drainage area. A beautiful
roaring spring of sparkling water descends from the Gap, which has a
minimum flow of 600,000 gallons of water per twenty-four hours. The
water in McBride’s Gap is of a high degree of purity. The sanitary
condition of the watershed, as found by engineers employed by Mr.
Francies, is excellent.

It is Warden Francies’ intention to construct a huge reservoir, which
will store about 70,000,000 gallons of water. Pressure will be at
command at all times to amply operate the mechanical and industrial
departments of the prison and meet the requirements of many homes which
will be built by the State for the officers of the new prison.

In view of the fact that each of the farms embraced by the Nittany
Mountain site is improved with farm houses in good state of repair,
barns and other outbuildings, that the properties are well fenced,
drained, and most of them have matured orchards, the average price per
acre paid by the State for the twenty-two farms is considered to be
remarkably cheap.

  --_The Review._




REPORTS OF COUNTY JAILS IN PENNSYLVANIA.


Apparently very few counties in the State of Pennsylvania issue
published reports.

In response to a request from the Society, we have received reports
from 9 County Jails, from which we present the following items:


LUZERNE COUNTY--Wilkes-Barre.

  Number of prisoners received during the year 1911        1788
  Number on hand Dec. 31st, 1911                            104
  Average number per day                                    132½
  Cost per day for boarding prisoners                  12 3-5 cents
  Number employed out of their cells                         42

Those employed at this jail make and repair shoes, weave stockings and
make mattresses. The prison conducts a regular system of daily school
instruction.

Daily attendance at the school 21.

They are instructed in spelling, reading, writing, arithmetic and
history.

“There was no serious breach of the rules and no punishment inflicted,
or no attempt made to escape during the year.”

“The stern hand of the law must control a man by force, but the
law above finds a tender spot in the heart. Appeals to the reason
constrains him to choose the path of righteousness.”


CAMBRIA COUNTY--Ebensburg.

Report covers the time from March 7th, 1911, to Jan. 1st, 1912.

In that time they had received 547. Number in prison Jan. 1st, 1912,
112.

A number of improvements were made in the prison during the year, but
many more improvements are needed in order to secure proper ventilation
and sanitation.


LEHIGH COUNTY--Allentown.

  Number committed in 1911                             1123
  Number in prison Dec. 31st, 1911                      122
  Cost of board for each prisoner per day       10.83 cents

The main industry appears to be the manufacture of carpets and striped
clothing.

Gospel services are conducted weekly.


DAUPHIN COUNTY--Harrisburg.

No report received for 1911.

  In 1910, the number committed was       6,373
  The number Dec. 31st, 1910, was           215

With the exception of some domestic services, no industries appear to
be maintained at this institution.


ALLEGHENY COUNTY--Pittsburg.

  Number received during 1911                               14,302
  Number in prison Dec. 31st, 1911                             380
  Average number of prisoners each day                         412
  Average cost per day for food for each prisoner       6.22 cents


ALLEGHENY COUNTY WORKHOUSE--Hoboken.

  Number of prisoners received during the year 1911       4,171
  Number in prison at end of year                           827
  Average daily cost per inmate                     41.91 cents
  Average cost, after deducting earnings            19.01 cents
  Average inmates employed per day                          535
  Average inmates unemployed per day                        301

The sources of revenue are from the manufacture of brooms, brushes,
carpets, and from the sale of farm produce, and also from boarding
prisoners received from counties outside of Allegheny County.

Of the 4,171 received during the year, 2,237 were committed for the
first time. There were six who had been committed each fifty times or
more.

The shortest sentence was 10 days; the longest, 7 years.

2,366 were sentenced for 30 days, a very common sentence.

A night school is conducted for the benefit of illiterates, of whom 552
were received last year.

The chaplain in his report suggests that reformation would be much
aided if there should be organized at Pittsburg some society with
object to have the care of released prisoners.


MONTGOMERY COUNTY--Norristown.

  Report for 1910--Total committed during 1911        1156
  Number in prison at close of the year                147
  Cost of food per day for each prisoner       9½ cents

“The night school conducted by the Society of Friends has taught many
inmates to read and write.”


DELAWARE COUNTY--Media.

A very brief report received.

  Average number of prisoners per day                                98
  Average cost per day for board for each prisoner             12 cents
  They receive from articles manufactured            $4,243.41
  Expense of material for these articles              2,516.81
                                                      --------
  Leaving profit on manufactured articles of         $1,726.60
  Amount of money paid to prisoners for overwork                $338.00
  Amount spent for tobacco for the prisoners                    $369.00


MONTOUR COUNTY--Danville.

  Number committed during the year                                  54
  Number in jail at close of the year ending Sept. 30th, 1911        2


LANCASTER COUNTY--Lancaster.

  Number of prisoners received during 1911            1,324
  Number on hand at the end of the year                  94
  Cost per day for boarding prisoners            14.7 cents
      Industries appear to be carpet weaving and caning chairs.
  Number yards of carpet                              9,966
  Number of chairs caned                                379




PRISONERS’ AID SOCIETIES.

Some few months ago, the Secretary of the PENNSYLVANIA PRISON
SOCIETY sent to various Prisoners’ Aid Societies in the United
States a series of inquiries relative to the character of the aid
furnished by them to discharged prisoners.

A summary of these reports will prove interesting.


MASSACHUSETTS SOCIETY FOR AIDING DISCHARGED CONVICTS.

“This Society has furnished at one time or another to discharged
prisoners almost everything from clothing to artificial legs, eyes,
teeth, crutches, medicines, tools, jobs, transportation, board, etc.”

Their assistance is given not so much to those who are discharged from
the Penitentiary as to those who have served time in the County Jails.

“Where a man is employed in some special occupation, he needs extra
clothing, such as waiter’s outfit, rubber boots for sea, overalls,
etc., and where he is needy, change of underwear, socks, extra shirt,
etc. We furnish these articles. Last year, about $1800 was expended by
me for clothing out of a total expenditure of $9,479.10.”


MAINE PRISON ASSOCIATION.

This Association has been recently formed and so far its activities
have been directed to interesting the public and securing more
effective penal legislation.

There is a Prison Society at Portland, Maine, which gives help to
prisoners discharged from the County Jail. The clothing is solicited
and no money is paid except for expenses of lodging and transportation.


PRISONERS’ AID ASSOCIATION, RHODE ISLAND.

Their object is “to aid discharged prisoners in such ways and by
such means as will enable them to gain an honest and respectable
livelihood,” and also “to adopt such measures as shall seem to be
conducive to the prevention of crime.” For the present their efforts
are chiefly directed to the maintenance of a temporary Industrial Home
for released women prisoners. In 1910 their care extended to seventy
women and eight children.


PRISON ASSOCIATION OF NEW YORK.

This Association furnishes prisoners when discharged from the County
Prisons with clothing if they are in need. The applicant makes personal
request for help at their offices. The Association does not maintain an
Agent at the County Prison with purpose of determining what clothing
is necessary to be supplied. The Association solicits contributions of
clothing to be given to deserving ex-prisoners. They make a specialty
of caring for those who have been paroled and for those who have been
on probation. Their report last year shows an income of about $20,000,
of which $1,000 may have been used for clothing.


THE WOMEN’S PRISON ASSOCIATION OF NEW YORK CITY.

This Society has an Agent whose sole business it is to keep in close
touch with all the women who have been arrested and taken to the
sixty-eight station houses in the city where women are admitted.

“The Isaac T. Hopper Home, under our care, is not a prison; those
admitted are expected to give a month’s service, at the end of which
time they are sent to service in private families; a few remain from
choice, and to some of these low wages are paid. During the month of
trial, they are not expected to go out. The atmosphere of the house is
cheerful; they have good beds and good food.”


CONNECTICUT PRISON ASSOCIATION.

The suit, shoes and hat are furnished by the prison authorities. This
Association furnishes under-clothing and overcoats to those discharged
from the State Prison. In 1909-1910, they expended for this purpose
$1,051. We believe this Association gets an appropriation from the
State amounting to $2500 per annum. They assist in the “Parole Work.”


PRISON LEAGUE OF AMERICA.

This organization, under the efficient control of Maud Ballington
Booth, in results attained, stands at the head of all Prisoners’ Aid
Societies. To all ex-prisoners who apply they give clothing, work and
good cheer. In Chicago they have at this time assumed sponsorship for
nearly 300 prisoners.

“The clothing part of it is only a small part of the much we do, but it
is often the very necessary part.”

In various parts of the country this Society maintains farms, at which
work is given to ex-prisoners, and where they are assisted in every way
on the road to reform.


PRISON GATE MISSION, SALVATION ARMY, NEW YORK CITY.

“Good substantial clothing is given us from time to time that generally
meets the needs of the people with whom we deal.”

They maintain industrial homes at which the opportunity is given to
labor for their best welfare. They are doing wonderful work, the
importance of which defies statistics. They are not directly connected
with the “Parole Work.”


SOCIETY FOR THE FRIENDLESS.

This organization appears to have headquarters in Kansas City,
Missouri, with branch associations in various states. The Gen. Supt. is
Rev. Edward A. Fredenhagen, Kansas City, Mo., to whom applications for
further information may be sent. As a rule, prisoners discharged from
city prisons, jails, lock-ups, etc., are not supplied with clothing,
and when they apply to the Society for the Friendless their wants are
supplied and an effort is made to furnish them with employment. The
organization endeavors to follow them up and to keep in touch with
those whom they have helped. They endeavor to co-operate with Parole
Officers, but are not officially connected with the work. Societies
of the same name, mostly branches of the organization at Kansas City,
Mo., have made similar responses from North Dakota, Kansas, Kentucky,
Montana, Iowa, Washington and Minnesota.

Superintendent Parsons of the Minnesota Division says that last year
in pursuance of their work they “traveled 26,714 miles, delivered 265
addresses to 42,870 people, made 176 jail visits, interviewed 1110
prisoners.... Places of employment have been found for 120, and a large
number more have found employment as the result of the care given them.”


NEBRASKA PRISON ASSOCIATION.

The Legislature of this State appropriates $5,000 to supply the
needs of prisoners discharged from Penitentiary, and the work of
administering this charity appears to be undertaken by this Association.


PRISON REFORM ASSOCIATION OF LOUISIANA.

They furnish needy prisoners when discharged from county jails with
clothing. Up to this time they are not connected with “Parole Work.”


PRISON ASSOCIATION OF GEORGIA.

This organization has been organized but a few months, and has not
undertaken to distribute clothing to needy prisoners. They are
endeavoring to promote “Parole Work” and agree to employ any prisoner
who is entitled to “Parole.”


PRISONERS’ AID ASSOCIATION OF MARYLAND.

When prisoners come to them from the jails and appear to be in need,
they supply them with clothing. They are connected with the work of
paroling prisoners, and endeavor to follow them up by a system of
visitation.


THE CENTRAL HOWARD ASSOCIATION; CHICAGO, ILLINOIS.

“In reply to your first question, would say that in all of the eight
states in which this Association operates, the State itself furnishes
a suit of clothes, including an overcoat in winter, to all released
prisoners except in Kentucky, when men are paroled they do not receive
clothing. In addition a discharge fee of from $5 to $10 is given them
to make a new start. In one state, Minnesota, this discharge money
amounts to $25. Your second question is, therefore, answered by stating
that this Association is not called upon to furnish clothing and does
not spend any funds for that purpose. In the case of all those who come
to us from the Cook County Jail and the Chicago House of Correction,
and do not receive clothing or discharge money, we sometimes fit
them out with better clothing, but this is usually cast off clothing
given to us by friends.” * * * * “In answer to question five, would
state that we are directly connected with the ‘Parole Work’ in this
and adjacent states. In the case of those who are entitled to parole
in Illinois and are without friends or employers to sign their first
papers, these papers are signed by me in many cases, and I keep the men
under supervision during the period of their parole and they report
through me to the officials. In the cases of adjoining states, except
where the law permits them to be paroled outside of the state line, we
secure employers who are residents of that state to sign the parole
papers and serve as ‘first friend’ to the prisoner. This Association
also furnishes a representative in connection with the Adult Probation
Law to work with the paid Probation Officers in the courts in carrying
out the provisions of said law.”


COLORADO PRISON ASSOCIATION.

They formerly furnished prisoners when discharged from the Penitentiary
with clothing, but after securing the passage of a law, whereby the
State provides such clothing, they no longer assume such expense. In
the “Parole Work” they endeavor to co-operate with the Wardens. Their
Field Secretary visits the jails throughout the State.


HOME OF INDUSTRY, PHILADELPHIA.

“Grand object--the founding and providing of a Retreat and Home for
Discharged Prisoners of the City of Philadelphia, and the State of
Pennsylvania, giving employment and compensation for labor performed,
and by moral and religious influences and surroundings to awaken in
them an incentive to true manliness and good citizenship....”

Last year 79 men were received in the Home who were supplied with board
and lodging, and for services received some wages. They were assisted
in securing situations for permanent employment. The State recognizes
their good efforts by making an appropriation of $2500.00 per annum for
maintenance.


DOOR OF BLESSING, PHILADELPHIA.

This Institution has been in existence about 11 years, and in that time
has taken charge of 357 women and 30 children. These women and children
come to them from either the State of City prisons.

Many of them are forwarded to their homes, and situations for others
are obtained in the country. Recently, through the Agent of The
Pennsylvania Prison Society, they receive many children who have been
arrested for vagrancy and petty offences, direct from the Magistrates,
and they receive kindly attention until they are restored to their
friends or have been placed in homes.


AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR VISITING CATHOLIC PRISONERS.

The 16th Annual Report of the American Society for visiting Catholic
Prisons, just issued, shows that there were committed to the Eastern
Penitentiary of Pennsylvania in the year 1911, as follows:

  Catholic convicts                  107
  Catholic convicts discharged       113

and that there were remaining in the Penitentiary at the close of the
year (December 31st, 1911)

  Catholic men convicts              428
  Catholic women convicts              6
                                    -----
  Total                              434

The report states that “a committee of the society regularly visits
these unfortunates and seeks to convert the criminals into good
citizens,” and that during the past year 6256 visits were made.

Rev. M. A. Noel, S. J., is Catholic Chaplain of the Penitentiary, and
Mr. P. H. Spellissy is the President of the Society.




PAROLE IN CALIFORNIA

(Our good friend, Col. Griffith, of Los Angeles, sends to us the
following account of splendid results achieved in California.)


“One of the most excellent progressive movements of the period is that
which looks to a reform in the prison system and strives to convert
criminals into good citizens, useful to themselves, their families
and society. Governor Johnson has been a leader of the movement in
California, procuring the enactment of legislation greatly improving
conditions in the penitentiaries of the state. When the new system
shall have been operative for a reasonable period, men who have ‘done
their time’ will re-enter the world possessed of training that will
enable them to maintain themselves in honesty. Many a discharged
criminal relapses into crime because society has so ordered his
punishment as to make reform practically so difficult as to be almost
impossible.

“Eleven per cent. of California’s convicts are under parole. Last
month but five of the 363 violated in any way the terms on which
parole was granted, and every one was at work. During the month they
earned $15,600.55, expended $11,721.08 and saved $3879.47. That is
an excellent record, but its excellence will be greatly increased
under the new industrial methods to be established for the benefit
of the convicts in confinement. They will be taught how to maintain
themselves, and as those teachings become effective and hope, courage
and confidence are revived among men who would be outcast derelicts
were they released now, the percentage released on parole will rise and
the number of the redeemed increase.”




RELIEF GIVEN PRISONERS WHEN DISCHARGED FROM STATE PRISONS.


                             MONEY                            CLOTHING

  ARIZONA           $5.00 & R. R. Fare                     Complete suit

  ARKANSAS          $2.00                                  Complete suit

  CALIFORNIA        $5.00 & R. R. Fare                     Complete wardrobe

  COLORADO          $5.00 & R. R. Fare                     Complete suit

  CONNECTICUT       $5 00 & R. R. Fare                     Complete suit, over-coat,
                                                           change of underclothing,
                                                           working clothes, suitcase.

  DELAWARE          Earnings averaging from                If needed, they get clothing
  (Newcastle        $18.00 to $25,00                       with their earnings.
  County)

  GEORGIA           R. R. Fare                             Full suit

  IDAHO             $10.00                                 Clothing to value of
                                                           $10.00

  ILLINOIS          $10.00 & R. R. Fare                    Complete suit, and in
                                                           winter an overcoat.

  INDIANA           $10.00 & R. R. Fare, if released       Tailor-made suit and
                    at expiration of sentence              complete outfit.  Overcoat
                                                           from Nov. 1 to
                    $5.00 & R. R. Fare, if paroled.        April 1.

  IOWA              $5.00 & R. R. Fare                     Tailor-made suit and outfit:
                                                           overcoat when needed.

  KANSAS            “Our prisoners are paid a              Tailor-made woolen suit,
                    wage of about a dollar a               & complete outfit.
                    month, and they have this
                    money when discharged.”
                    Chouteau Fund of $1,000
                    constantly on hand, raised
                    by contributions from the
                    prisoners, and sale of trinkets;
                    used in caring for
                    needy families of prisoners
                    and in aiding worthy
                    prisoners in making a new
                    start.

  KENTUCKY          $5.00 & R. R. Fare                      Complete suit

  LOUISIANA         $5.00                                   Complete suit

  MAINE               “Not to exceed $10.00”                “Suitable and decent”
                                                            clothing.

  MARYLAND            $10.00 to $100 earned by              “Entire new outfit ...
                      over-work. $2.00 to $15.00            presentable anywhere.”
                      to indigent prisoners.

  MASSACHUSETTS       $3.00 to $5.00                        Entire suit. Overcoat
                                                            Oct. 1st to April 1st

  MICHIGAN            $7.50 to $15.00                       Full suit

  MINNESOTA           $25.00 and earnings, from             Complete suit. Overcoat
                      nothing to $500                       Oct. 1st to April 1st

  MISSISSIPPI         $10.00                                Full suit

  MISSOURI            $5.00 & R. R. Fare                    Complete outfit and overcoat
                                                            when needed.

  MONTANA             $5.00                                 Clothing allowance of
                                                            $15.00.

  NEBRASKA            $5.00 to $10.00 & R. R.               “Everything a man wears
                      Fare                                  except overcoat”

  NEVADA              $25.00, “with no strings tied         “Same clothing they had
                      to it whatever.”                      when brought here.” It
                                                            is cared for and pressed.
                                                            If they lack any clothing,
                                                            they may use their
                                                            “discharge money.”

  NEW HAMPSHIRE       $10.00                                New suit

  NEW JERSEY          $5.00 to $25.00, according to         “Full black suit,” and the
                      length of sentence. R. R.             other furnishings. Overcoat
                      Fare, except to the pardoned          in winter.
                      and paroled.

  NEW MEXICO          $5.00                                 Complete suit

  NEW YORK            $10.00 & R. R. Fare. In addition      Complete suit. Overcoat
                      earnings which may                    Nov. to April.
                      amount to 1½c per diem.

  NORTH CAROLINA      $7.20 per annum, “on good             “Good suit”
                      behavior.”

  NORTH DAKOTA        $5.00 to $25.00 and earnings.         Complete outfit
                      R. R. Fare. “After
                      a prisoner has credit of
                      $25.00 one-half earnings
                      will still be credited and the
                      other half to General Inmates’
                      Benefit Fund; or
                      five-sixths of earnings will
                      be sent to dependent relatives,
                      and one-sixth to the
                      prisoner’s account.”

  OHIO                $5.00 & R. R. Fare                    Necessary clothing

  OKLAHOMA            R. R. Fare                            Full suit

  OREGON              $5.00                                 Full new suit

  PENNSYLVANIA        $5.00 or $10.00                       Shoes and socks. Remainder
    Eastern                                                 furnished by
    Penitentiary                                            Penna. Prison Society.
                                                            Clothing to the value of
    Western           $5.00 or $10.00                       $10.00 in accordance with
    Penitentiary                                            Legislative appropriation.

  RHODE ISLAND        $5.00 & R. R. Fare                    Complete suit

  SOUTH CAROLINA      R. R. Fare                            Full suit

  SOUTH DAKOTA        $5.00 and earnings                    Outfit to the value of
                                                            $10.00

  TENNESSEE           R. R. Fare and small                  Citizen’s suit and their
                      amount of money                       working clothes

  TEXAS               $5.00 discharge money. 10c            Full suit
                      per day for each day served
                      in prison and R. R. Fare

  UTAH                $5.00 to $15.00                       Complete new suit

  VIRGINIA            $2.00 to $5.00 and earnings           “Good suit”

  W. VIRGINIA         $2.00 to $3.00 and earnings           “Good suit”

  VERMONT             $1.00 per week till the sum           They buy their own
                      of $100 is reached                    clothes

  WASHINGTON          $5.00 and R. R. Fare                  New good suit

  WISCONSIN           $8.58 at end of first year            Full suit
                      and about 1c per day thereafter.
                      R. R. Fare. Earnings
                      for overtime may be
                      sent to families, be used
                      for fruit, or credited to
                      their account.

  WYOMING             $50.00, of which not less than        $15.00 must be spent for
                      clothing


HONORARY MEMBERS.

  Maud Ballington Booth                 New York City.
  [1]Gen. R. Brinkerhoff                Mansfield, Ohio.
  Z. R. Brockway                        Elmira, N. Y.
  Judge McKenzie Cleland                Chicago, Ill.
  Prof. Charles Richmond Henderson      Chicago, Ill.
  Judge Ben. B. Lindsey                 Denver, Colo.
  [1]Frederick Howard Wines             Springfield, Ill.

[1] Deceased.


AN ACT.

    To define the rights and functions of official visitors of jails,
    penitentiaries, and other penal or reformatory institutions, and
    providing for their removal.

Section 1. Be it enacted, &c., That any person designated by law to
be official visitor of any jail, penitentiary, or other penal or
reformatory institution, in this Commonwealth, maintained at the public
expense, is hereby authorized and empowered to enter and visit any such
jail, penitentiary, or other penal or reformatory institution, on any
and every day, including Sundays, between the hours of nine o’clock,
ante meridian, and five o’clock, post meridian; and not before nine
o’clock, ante meridian, or after five o’clock, post meridian, except
with the special permission of the warden, manager, overseer, or
superintendent in charge of any such jail, penitentiary, or other penal
or reformatory institution.

Section 2. Upon any such visit of any official visitor to any such
jail, penitentiary, or other penal or reformatory institution, such
visitor shall have the right to interview privately any prisoner
or inmate confined in any such jail, penitentiary, or other penal
reformatory institution, and for that purpose to enter the cell,
room, or apartment wherein any such prisoner or inmate shall be
confined: Provided, however, That if any warden, manager, overseer,
superintendent, or person in charge of such institution at the time of
such visit, shall be of the opinion that such entry by the official
visitor into the cell, room, or apartment of such prisoner or inmate
would be dangerous to the discipline of the institution, then and in
that case the said warden, superintendent, overseer, manager, or person
in charge, may conduct any prisoner or inmate, with whom such official
visitor may desire a private interview, into such other cell, room, or
apartment within the institution as he may designate and there permit
the private interview between the official visitor and such prisoner
or inmate to take place: Provided further, however, That no official
visitor shall have the right or power of privately interviewing any
such prisoner or inmate except prisoners or inmates of the same sex as
such official visitor.

Section 3. All powers, functions, and privileges heretofore belonging
to official visitors of jails, penitentiaries, and penal or reformatory
institutions, under the common statute laws, are hereby confirmed:
Provided, however, That no such official visitor shall have the right
or power to give or deliver to any prisoner or inmate of any such
jail, penitentiary, or penal or reformatory institution, during such
visit, any chattel or object whatsoever, except objects and articles of
religious or moral instruction or use.

Section 4. If any such official visitor shall violate any of the
prohibitions herein contained, any warden, manager, overseer, or
superintendent of any such jail, penitentiary, penal or reformatory
institution, may apply to any court of common pleas in the county
wherein such institution may be situated, for a rule upon such
visitor to show cause why he or she should not be deprived of his or
her office; and upon proof to the satisfaction of said court being
made, such court shall enter a decree against such official visitor,
depriving him or her of all rights, privileges, and functions of
official visitor.

APPROVED--The 14th day of May, A. D. 1909.

  EDWIN S. STUART.


AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE

Philadelphia Society for Alleviating the Miseries of Public Prisons

SECTION 1.--_Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, in General
Assembly met, and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same_,
That all and every the persons who shall at the time of the passing of
this Act be members of the Society called “The Philadelphia Society
for Alleviating the Miseries of Public Prisons,” shall be and they are
hereby created and declared to be one body, politic and corporate, by
the name, style and title of “The Philadelphia Society for Alleviating
the Miseries of Public Prisons,” and by the same name shall have
perpetual succession, and shall be able to sue and be sued, implead
and be impleaded in all courts of record or elsewhere, and to take and
receive, hold and enjoy, by purchase, grant, devise, or bequest to them
and their successors, lands, tenements, rents, annuities, franchises,
hereditaments, goods and chattels of whatsoever nature, kind, or
quality soever, real, personal, or mixed, or choses in action, and
the same from time to time to sell, grant, devise, alien, or dispose
of; _provided_ That the clear yearly value or income of the necessary
houses, lands, tenements, rents, annuities, and other hereditaments,
and real estate of the said corporation, and the interest of money by
it lent, shall not exceed the sum of five thousand dollars; and also
to make and have a common seal, and the same to break, alter, and
renew at pleasure; and also to ordain, establish, and put in execution
such by-laws, ordinances, and regulations as shall appear necessary
and convenient for the government of the said corporation, not being
contrary to this Charter or the Constitution and laws of the United
States, or of this Commonwealth, and generally to do all and singular
the matters and things which to them it shall lawfully appertain to do
for the well-being of the said corporation, and the due management and
ordering of the affairs thereof; and provided further, that the objects
of the Society shall be confined to the alleviation of the miseries
of public prisons, the improvement of prison discipline and relief of
discharged prisoners.

  SAM’L ANDERSON, _Speaker of House_,
  THOS. RINGLAND, _Speaker of Senate_.

Approved the 6th day of April, Anno Domini Eighteen Hundred and
Thirty-three.

  GEORGE WOLF.


LEGAL CHANGE OF NAME

The Following Confirms the Action Relative to the Change of the Name of
the Prison Society

Decree:

And now, to wit, this 27th day of January, A. D. 1886, on motion of
A. Sidney Biddle, Esq., the Petition and Application for change of
name filed by “The Philadelphia Society for Alleviating the Miseries
of Public Prisons,” having been presented and considered, and it
appearing that the order of court heretofore made as to advertisement
has been duly complied with and due notice of said application to
the Auditor-General of the State of Pennsylvania being shown, it is
Ordered, Adjudged, and Decreed, that the name of the said Society shall
hereafter be “THE PENNSYLVANIA PRISON SOCIETY,” to all intents and
purposes as if the same had been the original name of the said Society,
and the same name shall be deemed and taken to be a part of the Charter
of the said Society upon the recording of the said Application with its
indorsements and this Decree in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of
this County, and upon filing with the Auditor-General a Copy of this
Decree.

  (Signed)      JOSEPH ALLISON.


Record:

Recorded in the office for the Recording of Deeds in and for the City
and County of Philadelphia, on Charter Book No. 11, page 1064. Witness
my hand and seal of Office this 28th day of June, A. D. 1886.

  GEO. G. PIERIE, Recorder of Deeds.


[Transcriber’s Note:

Obvious printer errors corrected silently.

Inconsistent spelling and hyphenation are as in the original.]





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Journal of Prison Discipline and
Philanthropy, March 1912, by Unknown

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JOURNAL OF PRISON DISCIPLINE, MARCH 1912 ***

***** This file should be named 59014-0.txt or 59014-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/9/0/1/59014/

Produced by Wayne Hammond and The Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This book was
produced from images made available by the HathiTrust
Digital Library.)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

